---
layout: post
title: Research outline
date: 2020-09-16 12:00
summary: Key findings from my research
---

In this document, I'll be listing the key findings from me research and evaluating how they can be used.

## Primary research - Interview with Lachlan Campbell

[Lachlan Campbell](https://lachlanjc.com) is the Head of Storytelling at Hack Club & an activist for many global issues. 

I asked them about storytelling, and activism through design.

A write-up is coming very soon!

## Secondary research

I've also taken the time to research and learn more about Climate Change!

### A crash course on climate change, 50 years after the first Earth Day by the New York Times

_NYT Climate Desk. “Climate Crash Course Part 1: How Bad Is Climate Change Now?” New York Times, 20 Apr. 2020, www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html._

#### The current situation

* Arctic is warming rapidly. "Last year, average air temperatures were about 3.5 degrees Fahrenheit, or 1.9 degrees Celsius, higher than the average from 1981-2010."
* Rest of the world is also warming up.
* Feedback loops: as ice melts less light is reflected and therefore more heat is absorbed which warms up the waters causing more ice to melt.
* Antarctica is also having ice melt. Mainly through the calving of icebergs and melting of the undersides of ice shelves, however.
* As the Arctic melts, the polar jet stream is disrupted. This causes extreme weather.
  * This is because high-pressure air zones are created, these zones stall weather systems.
* "What happens in the Arctic doesn’t stay in the Arctic."

#### Scientific Evidence

* The second warmest year on record was 2019
  * Direct measurements of the earth temperature start in 1800s
  * Prior to that, the average temperature is found indirectly through ice core samples, tree rings, corals, pollen and cave deposits.
* Ocean temperatures hit a high in 2019 as well

#### Influence & our leaders

* Lot's of lobbying slows down change
* Fossil fuels industry is powerful, and performs a lot of lobbying
  * Lobbied against policies to tackle global warming
  * Obscured established scientific research
* The USA is going backwards (article is US-centric)
  * President Trump pulled out of the Paris climate accord
  * The White House also halted the Obama administration’s Clean Power Plan after lobbying from coalcompanies such as Peabody Energy 
  * In the USA, oil and gas indsutries spent $125 million in federal lobbying

#### What we can do

* Clean up electric power plants with renewable alternatives
  * Case studies to explore: California, France, South Australia.
  * Would cut one-quarter of global emissions
* Go electric, whereever possible
  * Examples: electric cars, electric heat pumps & electric furnaces
  * Would cut one-quarter of global emissions
  * Use technology to cover for what we can't directly convert to electric
* Fix farming
  * Not much solutions here (yet), however emissions need to be cut and less food wastage
  * Stop deforestation
  * Would cut one-quarter of global emissions

#### Do I have an impact?

* In countries that consume more, the actions taken by citizens have a greater impact.
* Small actions we take have a bigger impact, for example: purchasing palm oil products and wasting food.
* If we all slowly commit we'll make change.

### Global warming from 1880 to 2019 by NASA

_B. Schmunk, Robert. “Video: Global Warming from 1880 to 2019.” Climate Change: Vital Signs of the Planet, climate.nasa.gov/climate_resources/139/video-global-warming-from-1880-to-2019/._

This video may seem insignificant, but we can draw a lot of information from it:

* Rise in global temperatures are a recent phenomon
* Changes started in approx. 1980
* Change is world wide but mostly in the North
* This graphic could be intergrated with end product

### A Climate Reckoning in Fire-Stricken California by Thomas Fuller and Christopher Flavelle (NYT)

_Fuller, Thomas, and Christopher Flavelle. “A Climate Reckoning in Fire-Stricken California.” The New York Times, 10 Sept. 2020, www.nytimes.com/2020/09/10/us/climate-change-california-wildfires.html._

* Shows an example of a current event affected by Climate Change
* “If you are in denial about climate change, come to California,” Gov. Gavin Newsom 
* “We used to worry about one natural hazard at a time,” said Alice Hill, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who oversaw
resilience planning on the National Security Council during the Obama administration. “The acceleration of climate impacts has
happened faster than even we anticipated.”
* Fires caused by a warmer planet
* Photos can be used to create a realistic experience

### Impact Of Climate Change In Singapore by NCCS

_National Climate Change Secretariat. “Impact Of Climate Change In Singapore.” Www.Nccs.Gov.Sg, www.nccs.gov.sg/singapores-climate-action/impact-of-climate-change-in-singapore/._
